\input texinfo  @c -*-textinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename manual.info
@settitle Mastermind Manual
@c @firstparagraphindent insert
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is part of mastermind project.

Copyright @copyright{} 2015 - Dev2Space team and contributors.
Licence GPLv3
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Mastermind Manual
@subtitle Mastermind developement process description
@author Moez Bouhlel
@author Firas Chaaben

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@ifplaintext
@insertcopying
@end ifplaintext

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Welcome to Mastermind manual
This manual is part of Mastermind project. Its main focus is to give a short
presentation about Mastermind developement process.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* General Presentation::	Genaral presentation
* C Standards::			Used C Standards
* Third party libraries::	Third party libraries used on mastermind
* Developement Tools::		Tools use on developement proccess
* Index::			Index list
@end menu

@node General Presentation
@chapter Project Presentation

This project is open source Mastermind Game implementation on C. It's customizable with mutli-platform support.
Currently, support for changing number of holes, colors and guesses is supported. Support for enabling/disabling remise is available.
Mutli use support is limited to changing session account name and saving each score with its account name.
Top 20 scores are saved. Support for saving and restoring the session is included.

Booth command line interface and graphical user infterface are implemented.
Various configuration options are implemnted on booth build time and runtime.
Build time options are available on @file{config.h.in} and @file{CMakeList.txt} files.
Runtime options are descripted on @file{doc/config.md} file and man:mastermincli(1).
The command line interface support internationalization, booth short and long options and internal command auto-completion.

The graphical interface is based on SDL2.


Multi platorm support is implemented as follow:

@cindex Multi platform support
@itemize @bullet
@item
CLI: Linux, Windows, Mac OS X
@item
GUI: Linux, Windows, Mac OS X, iOS, Android, Web
@end itemize


@include c-standards.texi
@include third_party_libs.texi
@include dev_tools.texi

@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp


@bye
