.TH mastermindsdl 1 "April 2015" Mastermind "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mastermindcli \- simple and customizable mastermind implementation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mastermindcli [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mastermindcli
is a simple and customizable mastermind implementation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s\fB, \fB\-\-set\fB [OPTION [VALUE]]
print mastermind global settings if not option is passed.
.br
print mastermind global OPTION value if just OPTION is passed.
.br
change mastermind global OPTION value to VALUE if booth OPTION and VALUE are
passed.
.TP
\-c, \-\-score
printf mastermind top scores.
.TP
\-a, \-\-account [ACCOUNT]
print mastermind current account name if ACCOUNT is not specified.
.br
set mastermind account to ACCOUNT and start a new session.
.TP
\-h, \-\-help
printf help message.
.TP
\-v, \-\-version
printf version.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration options are readden and written to config file as specified on
FILES section.
.br
Available options:
.TP
colors (Integer, default: 6)
number of colors
.TP
holes (Integer, default: 4)
number of holes
.TP
guesses (Integer, default: 12)
number of guesses
.TP
remise (Boolean, default: 0)
color repeated only once on combination
.TP
account (String, default: default)
account name
.TP
save_on_exit (Boolean, default: 0)
save session on exit
.TP
save_on_play (Boolean, default: 0)
save session on every played guess
.SH COMMAND LINE
mastermindcli supports an internal interative commandline based on readline to
modify configuration, change account, show scores, save/restart sessions,...
.br
For an up to date list of internal commandline commands, you can use
auto-completion feature of readline to list them (Tab button on the default
emcas mode).
.SH FILES
mastermindcli uses 3 files; one config file, one score file which contains top
scores and one binary store file which contains last saved session object.
.PP
config file location depend on platform mastermindcli is running on; on Unix
systems (other than Mac OS and Android and iOS), config file location is choosen
on the following order:
.br
$XDG_CONFIG_DIR/mastermind/config
.br
~/.mastermind/config
.PP
More details on each file location on each platform, refer to src/core.c
mm_init() function code.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Moez Bouhlel.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2015 Dev2Space team.
Licence GPLv+.
Main developers: Moez Bouhlel and Firas Chaaben.
